A 48-year-old woman visited the pain clinic of our university hospital for motor weakness in the right lower extremity. Her weakness started 1 year ago and had slowly progressed. The weakness began at the right distal lower limb (ankle and toe dorsiflexors or plantar flexors) and progressed to the proximal muscles of the right lower limb. Additionally, she had slight pain of a tingling nature [numeric rating scale (NRS): 1] in the entire right lower extremity, which was not dermatome related. Prior to visiting our clinic, the patient had visited several clinics with the same symptoms and had been diagnosed with right L5 and S1 radiculopathy due to a herniated lumbar disc by clinicians. On lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), a central protrusion on L4-5 and a central extrusion on L5-S1 were observed.

Cervical and thoracic spine MRI and brain MRI showed no abnormal lesions. The patient received repeated right L5 and S1 selective nerve root injection with corticosteroid, but her symptoms did not improve. Physical examination at our hospital revealed that her motor strength was 3/5 for her right hip flexor, knee extensor, and plantar flexor and 0/5 for her right ankle dorsiflexor and extensor hallucis longus on the Medical Research Council (MRC) scale for muscle strength. Moreover, we observed that the patient’s left ankle dorsiflexor and extensor hallucis longus were mildly weakened (4/5 on MRC), but she had not noticed it. No sensory deficits or bulbar symptoms were observed. Bilateral biceps, triceps, knee, and ankle reflexes were normal. Mild atropy and fasciculation in the right calf muscles were obaserved. Compound motor action potential (CMAP) showed no response for the right peroneal nerve and decreased amplitudes for the right tibial and left peroneal nerves during the electrophysiological examination. The sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) of the bilateral superficial peroneal and sural nerves were normal. Nerve conduction studies (NCSs) performed on the upper extremities were normal. On electromyography, positive sharp waves (2+~3+) were observed in the bilateral thoracic and lumbar paraspinalis and bilateral lower extremity muscles, including bilateral biceps femoris, tibialis anterior, peroneus longus, tensor fascia latae, gastrocnemius, and right vastus medialis. On follow-up at 6 months after the first visit to our department, the bilateral knee and ankle reflexes had increased. 
