A 17-year-old boy was admitted to our clinic with   complaints   of   weakness   and   difficulty   in   speaking   and   swallowing.   Weakness   in   the right foot had started approximately six months previously and had spread to the right arm, left arm and left leg in the three weeks before the admission. Before these complaints, he had no previous history of serious illness, muscle  pain,  trauma  or  adverse  reaction  to vaccinations, and he had no recent infections. His medical history revealed that he was born at term with a birthweight of 2,000g, and his neuromotor  development  was  normal.  There  has been no consanguineous marriage in the family history. On  physical  and  neurological  examination, he   had   mild   dysarthric   speech   and   tongue   fasciculation. His uvula was slightly deviated to the left, and his retching reflex was decreased. Muscle strength of right upper limb was 3/5 and left upper limb was 4/5 (in deltoids, biceps, triceps and hands). Muscle strength of right lower limb was 2/5 in the proximal muscles (in iliopsoas, hamstring, quadriceps femoris) and 1/5 in the distal muscles (in tibialis anterior, gastrocnemius) and left lower limb was 4/5. His  tendon  reflexes  were  hypoactive  in  the left lower and upper limbs and hyperactive in the right lower and upper limbs. His sensory examination was normal. There were atrophy findings in the right-upper and lower limbs. 

Laboratory findings established the following: hemogram and peripheral smear were normal; creatine kinase 179 (40–220 IU/L); sedimentation 6 mm/h; blood amino acids, tandem MS/MS and lactate were normal; vasculitis screening was found to be normal; and HIV serology was negative. Electromyography (EMG) showed a reduced amplitude of the motor potentials in the examined motor nerves. Fibrillation potential, sharp  waves  and  prolonged  polyphasic  motor  unit potentials (MUPs) were seen in bilateral tibialis  anterior,  bilateral  gastrocnemius, right  biceps,  right  deltoid,  genioglossus  and rectus abdominis muscles. The findings were evaluated as diffuse anterior horn involvement. Cranial MRI (Fig. 1) showed increased linear signal  intensity  on  T2W  images  along  both internal capsule hind legs to mesencephalon; the diffusion-based examination showed slight diffusion restriction in this area. Cervical, thoracic and lumbar MRI were normal. 