A 34-year-old male presented at our hospital because of the inability to open his mouth for 1 and a half years after the incision and drainage of the right masseter space abscess. The patient had numbness and pain in the lower limb and gradually developed a severely limited range of motion and rigidity of that hip at about 21 years old. In the following 5 years, his lumbar vertebrae had swelling with mild pain, and limitation in range of motion progressed, then he was also diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis. At the age of 26, he was suspected of having bilateral rib fractures by a local doctor after a car accident, but no imaging examination or further treatment was performed. After the injury, he tried to reduce the activity of his upper limbs because of pain, but after a month, he found that he could not lift his left arm gradually. Then, he had stiffness of the neck, and moving was limited due to a lack of neck extension at the age of 28. At the age of 32, due to the pain in the right mandibular wisdom teeth and following facial swelling for more than 1 month, he was diagnosed with right masseter space infection and marginal osteomyelitis of the mandible caused by dental abscesses in the local hospital. The patient underwent incision and drainage of a masseter space abscess under general anesthesia. After the operation, facial pain was alleviated, but the limitation of mouth opening was gradually aggravated and progressed to trismus. About half a year later, he was admitted to our hospital due to difficulty in eating. Besides, the patient stated that there are no similar symptoms or illnesses among his family members.

The patient was emaciated due to eating disorders, he was not able to walk and squat in normal posture due to a spinal deformity of kyphosis, he also had a restricted range of motion of the left arm, and there were multiple palpable nodules on his shoulder, back, and knee region, and a cord-like mass was seen on the left axilla. Facial asymmetry was observed, with the right side slightly swollen than the left side. A hard cord-like mass was palpated in the right cheek, extending from the zygomatic bone to the anterior edge of the mandibular angle. His temporomandibular joint is immobile but depleted of any primary joint problems. His mouth was tightly closed with a deep anterior overbite and overjet. However, the patient’s thumb valgus deformity is not obvious.

Three-dimensional reconstruction of CT scan of the maxillofacial region showed enlargement of the right zygomatic bone, with an “arch-shaped” bone-like tissue located in the anterior border of masseter muscle, extending downward from the lower edge of the right zygomatic bone to the anterior edge of the mandibular angle. Spur-like irregular protrusions were observed in the mandibular angle. Three- dimensional reconstruction of CT scan of the chest and upper abdomen showed prominent ossifications across the chest, back, and waist, surrounding the thoracic cage, acromioclavicular joint, and vertebrae, resulting in bony bridge and bone fusion between affected bones. The X-ray film of the pelvis revealed a high-density shadow around the bilateral femur and ilium.

Under the patient’s strong desire to resolve his mouth-opening problem, the patient underwent the surgical resection of ossification in the masseter muscle and removal of the wisdom tooth via an intraoral incision under general anesthesia with fiberoptic nasotracheal intubation. Postoperative images showed that the high-density ossification image of masseter area had been removed. The mouth opening was about 1.5 cm after surgery and the patient was instructed to insist on mouth-opening exercises and take glucocorticoids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications after discharge. After follow-up for more than a year after surgery, the patient’s mouth opening is <1 cm, being slightly less than that immediately after surgery. Two years after surgery, the patient stated the recurrence of mouth restriction symptoms.

Histopathological examination of the resected tissue specimens confirmed mature bone tissue.

The results of genetic testing showed the patient had a heterozygous molecule (c.974G > C, p.G325A) in ACVR1
