We report the case of a 10-year-old female patient product of the second pregnancy of healthy non-consanguineous parents and with two apparently healthy siblings. At birth, the patient was hospitalized for 5 days for low birth weight (1700 g) and height (42 cm). Subsequently, the patient showed normal development during infancy and childhood, with no other relevant antecedents. At 6 years of age, two indurated tumors were identified: one of 3.5 cm in the right scapular region and another of 5.5 cm at the dorsal vertebrae level. The patient underwent an orthopedic evaluation, and the biopsy of these tumors concluded myofibromatosis. After performing the diagnostic procedure, the tumors increased in size. The patient also presented joint stiffness of the upper extremities, limitation for rotation and flexion of the neck, and severe scoliosis. The Rheumatology department ruled out inflammatory pathological conditions. The patient underwent reevaluation by the Medical Genetics department. Physical examination indicated that the patient’s weight was found on the 10th percentile and height and head circumference on the 50th percentile. Also, the patient showed reduced neck mobility (rotation and flexion), shoulder, elbow, and wrist joints stiffness, body asymmetry secondary to scoliosis, indurated tumors in the scapular and infrascapular areas (sites where biopsies had been performed), and a right infra-axillary tumor. Short first toes with medial deviation were observed and present since birth according to the mother. The anteroposterior feet X-ray showed bilateral fusion of the fourth and fifth metatarsals’ proximal portion and shortening of the phalanges of the first toe with medial deviation. Dorsal, lumbar, and long bone X-rays showed soft tissue calcifications in several regions: the left cervical paravertebral region with an extension towards the left pectoral region, the bilateral lumbar paravertebral level, the left hip joint and femoral metaphyses bony projections. Computed tomography of the spine reported scoliosis, heterogeneous, poorly defined, multiple images with calcium depositions in the spine (bilaterally), trapezius, and back muscles. 