A 33-year-old man was referred to West China Hospital of Sichuan University for experiencing abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea and jaundice for one year. He had been diagnosed with CD 12 years previously by colonoscopy with multiple biopsies in local hospitals 3 times. The patient’s colitis was managed well with sulfasalazine, steroids and metronidazole treatment.
One year earlier, however, the patient had a relatively severe exacerbation despite maintenance with mesalamine. For several months, he experienced intermittent fever, rectal hemorrhage, painless jaundice, and prutitus, and weight loss of 5 kg. He also experienced pain in his knees and elbows for a week.
Physical examination revealed a pale, thin patient. Spider naevi and palmar erythema were absent. There was moderate hepatomegaly with tenderness and stiffness on palpation.Otherwise, the abdominal examination was normal. There were no other abnormal physical findings. Laboratory tests showed a Hgb of 56 g/dL, MCV 89 fl, HCT 24.5%, AST 94 IU/mL, ALT 72 IUm/L, ALP 958 U/mL, total bilirubin (TB) 117.1 μmol/L, direct bilirubin (DBIL) 101.2 μmol/L, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 113 mm/h and C-reactive protein (CRP) 32.7 mg/dL. Screening for the various markers of viral hepatitis (A, B, C, CMV, EB, HS and VZ) was all negative. Non-organ specific auto-antibodies (ANAs, AMAs, AML, and anti-LKM1) were also negative. Laboratory studies showed the presence of the anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) (+) and p-ANCA (+) (both 1:320). Stool cultures for pathogens shigella, salmonella, Vibrio cholerae, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, halophilic bacteria, and proteus were negative. Ulcers and inflammatory polyps were noted from the transverse colon to the terminal ileum with a segmental pattern, via colonoscopy. Colonic histopathology of biopsies demonstrated the inflammation involved the mucosa and submucosa, with granulomas found supporting the diagnosis of CD.
A computerized axial tomography (CAT) scan of the abdomen revealed intrahepatic biliary dilatation and moderate hepatomegaly. A liver biopsy revealed the presence of a moderate portal and lobular plasmacytic inflammatory infiltrate with slight porto-portal and periductular fibrosis, along with an onion skin appearance and moderate ductular proliferation.